The first thing we want to do as we do with all components is poor re-act But we also want to import
react on from the re-act down package and I have a feeling we're going to need some CSSA styling with
our motile.
So I'm going to create a CSSA file as well for our motile.
And before I forget and we're going to go ahead once again and make sure that I create a new file motile
dot CSSA
and make sure that I use a semicolon.
Now the first thing we're going to do is we actually need to bind this motile.
Remember we created another div component that we can bind to using react on because it's going to be
completely separate from our app component.
Let's do that let's say Konst model root is going to equal document dot get elements by id and we're
going to grab the modal root all meant.
I think that's what we called it and now we have access to this comment on our index start a shemale
page.
Now here's the fun part.
We're going to create our model that extends react re-act component.
Nothing new here we've done this before.
We also want to export it
now in here.
This is where it gets tricky.
We want to have our regular constructor and we want to accept prop's
call super.
So we can use the this keyword and then here I want to have a reference to something called an element
and this element is going to be document dot create element
and I'm gonna explain what that does.
And again going forward with this model it might get a little bit confusing if this is your first time
seeing this code.
Again re-act has really really good documentation so you can go and you'll see some of this code on
their website because it's the recommended way to do modals.
So you might have to play around with it a couple of times but you will get used to it.
I promise.
Now what we want to do first is we want to render the moto.
And the way we do this when we use a portal is we say return re-act Dom dot create portal
in here it's going to accept two parameters.
It's going to accept this stop prop's dot children whatever is inside of the modal component and it's
also going to accept this dot element the element that we've just created a div element and the final
piece of the puzzle is to create a component
did mount that when the modal is open.
We want to attach to the modal root that is the index card a shemale file.
We want to append
element.
So we're adding this element a development to the modal root and this development is going to be wrapped
around whatever we put inside of this Modal component.
It's children.
We also want to be careful with models because they do close and we want to exit out of them.
We don't want to leave any junk behind on our index file.
We can clean up after ourselves by doing component will on mount I guess no capital M there.
And within here we simply say modal root Daut remove child.
This dot element so and I have to do this thought element here to gang because we're referencing the
ultimate safe and that's it we've just created a modal.
I know this can get a little bit confusing but think of it as a standard way to create modal and react.
All we're doing is creating a portal a nice little method that comes with react.
And it's going to mount when we remove it.
It's going to open some a symbol for us when we mount.
Also going to add a little bit.
They see SS Just to make sure that the modal pops out and we see it properly.
I'm going to use the idea of moral bruit that we have in the DML file and give it a position of relative
and a z index of 9 9.
So to make sure that it's at the very front of all the other it's just going to save that go back to
modal logic yes.
And now if we go back to app dodgy us where we've already imported our motile we can test this out by
using the component.
So let's scroll down all the way down to where we're rendering and perhaps just on the main page just
for fun.
Say motile and remember it accepts children so I'm just going to say hello
and close up the let's save
Hello's not defined because it has to be a string.
Let's go back.
And where is this Modal Phi open up my developer tools.
Let's go to elements or let's use it re-act developer tools.
I see that there's a app but I don't see my model do I.
If I go to the elements plane I see that I have ID model route.
I have a div
OK but there's nothing really in it except for the dif.
And we need to do a few things here to actually get the model to work.
Let's go back.
The first thing we want to do is what we want to be able to open this model and toggle it on and off.
And because that's a pretty big functionality let's added to the very top of Abdulle us where we have
our state and create a new state called is profil open and we'll set it as false for now.
And now we can pass this down as props to whatever component we want.
So let's just add this has is profile open to our state
and within the navigation before we actually even check if our router is home.
Let's move this up
and do something like this.
Use a javascript expression by wrapping it in curly brackets then saying is profil open.
And if it is render the modal Otherwise we can say no.
Another easy way of doing this is actually a lot cleaner is to use and and this is a little shorthand
by doing this let's wind this up a little bit better so we can see better.
I'm saying if is profile is true then keep going and render the modal profile open to false then.
Well that's going to error out so it's not even going to go to the modal and read it.
So this is a shorthand way of doing if you want to do a turn an operator where the last option is just
no.
All right.
And in here in the modal Let's create another component and we'll call this component profil because
this is where we want the profile to be display and this profile will get the Is profile open state.
Let's save
and we get profile is not defined because we need to define it.
But before we do that I want to do one little thing.
I also want to actually use is profile open to toggle the modem to either turn it on or off mounting
it or mounting it and we can just come up here and add a new method call and get toggle motile and this
toggle motile will be a function that simply will do this.
Set state and it will update is profile open to state DOT is profile open.
So it's just kind of toggle it.
True or False True or false every time.
Now remember here every time I'm touching state and this should be this state every time I'm touching
state within a set state that's a bit of a no no because of the way re-act works.
We want to always make sure that we use the function way of updating state and that is to do something
like this.
And we can just wrap it in curly brackets so that we're returning this object previously when we actually
did this in the I believe seinen
or we did this in the profile icon we left did like this.
But what we actually want to do is return the full state that we want to update and the way we do that
is with a little bit of destructuring or spread operator.
It is dot dot state.
So right now I'm returning the entire state as well as updating whatever the current state is with the
IS profile open updated.
Let's save this and we'll get state is not defined because we have to update it to the parameter previous
state.
And this has to be now previous.
All right.
And I'm still getting profile is not defined but again because we don't have the component yet but we
want to pass the toggle modal method down to profile as well because we can close the profile from the
profile page but we can also open it from our navigation page.
I'm going to say this dot Tongo mortal let's say if and let's start creating our profile component we
have the ability to probably use this and close the model but also within the navigation where we do
the profile icon click and then view profile with the dropdown menu we're most likely going to need
that as well.
So I'm just going to add it on a new line just so it's a little bit cleaner.
I'm going to say toggle motile again passing down this dot toggle mode.
All right.
Let's build out the profile component.
I'm going to add a new file here to our profile folder and this on is just going to be called Profiles.
Yes.
Now in profile.
Yes I'm going to import re-act from re-act
and we'll just do a stateless function.
So we'll just say Konst profile is going to receive.
Well we have is profile open that we receive I believe if we go back up is profile open and toggle motile
that we receive.
So let's make sure that we have those
and within here where we want to return some things.
Now for now I want to make sure that this is working so I'm just going to say DIVX and let's say Jack
Jack.
Or a lesser op ed just to make sure that's the string.
Check check
close the day make sure we export the profile.
Let's save.
And we also want to go back to APT.
Yes I make sure we're importing the profile component so I'm going to add a profile from the profile
folder let's save C forget 10 years nothing yet let's go back to our app.
If I click View Profile Well nothing happens.
And that's because if we go to our re-act Deval pro-tools and we look at is profile open.
When I click View Profile.
Well we're not toggling anything.
Our profile is open is always false.
But if I go back and just set our apt.
Yes.
Is Profar open to true go back.
We see that as profile open is equal to true and we open up our app oh look at that.
We see our motile and this motile has a profile component and this profile component has a div.
Check check.
But our CSSA is a little bit off and it's not showing but we see that this is working we just need to
make sure that we can toggle it on and off.
Let's work on that.
I want to bring this back to false and within the profile section let's make it a little bit more interesting.
I'm going to create a div with a class name of some styles I will get from Ptak Kyon's.
Let's do a closed div.
Put this on a new line and within here.
Let's actually add what should be at.
Well I just want to make sure that the toggle modal is working so let's just add a button and this button
will just say click
will have an on click function might not see the model so it might not work.
We might have to add some CSSA cells first but let's give this a try.
I'm going to say toggle modem Let's actually add some proper CSSA here so you can see this Modal going
to create a new CSSA file.
Let's do this first import profile got SS
and let's add that's the SS file now.
And let's just have a profile modal class that will have a background color as just make it a little
bit see through.
Let's say zero point eight for opacity.
We'll give it a position of fixed again something that we will definitely need.
Let's give it a height of 100 percent
perhaps say with as well a 100 percent
top of 0 laughed his 0.
Lots of CSSA also add a display of Flack's
you want to align the items.
Again we're just using Fluxbox here to be centered.
And finally we want to also justified content center
let's safe here let's go back and actually you know what instead of this class name let me just change
all of this to our class that we just created which is profile motile.
So I'll say profile motile Let's go back
and I just realized with a view profile when we click we want to make sure that we can toggle this on
and off.
So let's go back to our navigation here.
Where we click the view profile.
So we have profile icon and the profile icon when we click the view profile.
We also want to have an on click event and this On Click event is going to have the this Dopp props
toggle.
That's what probably should have been doing from the beginning but we make these mistakes every once
in a while and save make sure we get the toggle motile from profile icon.
So let's go back to the navigation.
Let's clean this up it's getting a little bit messy once again.
And starting from the top if you go to
navigation we see that in navigation we have this start toggle motile.
So if you go to the navigation component and the profile icon lets also pass down the toggle moral property.
Let's give that a go.
All right.
If you look at the bottom here it is doing something.
It's toggling but we get an error not fun Felty execute removed child on Node the note to be removed
is not a child of this.
No that is a confusing load on air.
But let's see what's going on here.
I bet I made a silly mistake somewhere.
And.
All right.
Classic mistake.
It's one of those things that when you're a developer you just have to get used to it and kind of embrace.
You see over here that I completely misspelled component.
And some of you are probably laughing right now because they're wondering why I spelled it that way.
Well hopefully that's the reason.
Let's give it another try.
Let's go to the profile.
Hey look at that.
We have ourselves a motel that just has a click function for now.
But this is nice.
It's working.
Very very cool.
Now you saw how silly that was.
That was just a simple error of spelling but you don't really get any clear errors.
It was hard to figure out what was going on but just by looking at the fact that nothing was mounting
the aliment something was off so that's why I decided to look at the modal Geass and of course it was
a spelling error.
Now I actually want to draw our attention to this file because I did gloss over a little bit on what
this does.
You see a Port-Au element in Briac inserts into the dog treat after the Modals children are mounting.
So that what we're doing here is where mounting the modal component.
If I go back over here open up my developer tools
scoter react over here.
If I look over here as soon as I click View Profile I get the modal component and as soon as I click
off the moral component is gone and is completely unmounted from here and it's attached at the root
to that a simple element that we created.
Again if we go to elements and we go to motile root this is where our div was created that we have here.
All right.
Now that we've gotten this far we have ourselves a modal.
Let's make it a little bit prettier in the next video so that we can start working on our sessions.
I'll see on that one.